Reading from verse Peter, it's near the end.
Verse Peter chapter three, verses 13 to 18. Who is going to harm you if you are eager to do good?
But even if you should suffer for what is right, you are blessed.
Do not fear their threats.
Do not be frightened.
but in your hearts, reverb Christ as Lord.
Always be prepared to give an answer to anyone who asks you to give the reason for the hope that you have.
But do this with gentleness and respect, keeping a clear conscience so that those who speak maliciously against your good behavior in Christ may be ashamed of their slander
For it is better if it is God's will to suffer for doing good rather than doing evil.
For Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteous for the unrighteous to bring you to God.
He was put to death in the body but made alive in the spirit.
This is the word of the Lord.
Please be seated.
Quick poll, how many of you were born in Calgary?
Okay, about 35% of you, we would like to shake your hand.
On behalf of the rest of us who moved here, thank you.
It is great to be in this city.
I moved here a little over 22 years ago now, coming up on 23.
And I came from Regina, Saskatchewan.
And what I, yes.
You can forgive me too.
When we moved here, I discovered something interesting when we were looking at houses.
Here's what I discovered.
I never knew this before.
That when you walked around the house, if you could see out of any window at any place to catch any glimpse
of a certain aspect of reality, you would hit the jackpot.
If you could see a sliver of the mountains out of the guest bedroom, the third guest bedroom, you had what was called a mountain view.
And it was there that I discovered the value of beauty.
We love beauty.
We love beauty here in Calgary.
We value it.
Our houses are more expensive if you've got a great view.
We love the Rocky Mountains.
We love them.
We even love the new library.
We might complain about how expensive it was, but we love it.
It's also why we hate the big blue ring on the way out to the airport.
You look at the thing, it's not beautiful.
It's a ring.
We love beauty.
We care about beauty.
We love it in our dining.
Fine dining is defined.
Not just by flavor and not just by if it will make you full, it won't.
But how many swirls can they put on the plate?
We love beauty.
We'll pay for it.
And yet we also realize this, that we live in a time defined by ugly conflict.
It's getting ugly out there.
You can go on social media.
Any platform of your choice, it's ugly.
You can turn on the news, it's ugly.
People are at each other's throats.
Political discourse is strained.
Workplace dynamics are strained.
Even if you go to the mall, you can feel the tension in people.
You can sense it when you're driving.
You hop on Crow Child Trail and you're like, this could turn into a fight.
And we're both in rav force.
We're not fighting people.
We live in a time defined by ugly conflict.
And one of the things that Peter tells us is that Jesus offers a new way of being human.
That we don't have to be marked by ugly conflict.
We can be marked by a beautiful hope.
Peter says that Jesus has this invitation to a whole new kingdom, a whole new set of rules and reality.
And that if you follow Jesus, there will be peace in the midst of trial.
And our lives are marked by trial.
Some of it's self-inflicted sure.
Some of it is other-inflicted, and some of it is just the difficulty of walking through day-to-day life.
We experience it.
And finally, Peter says this, in Jesus, you have hope for a home, life after life, what people often refer to as heaven.
So today we're going to talk about the beauty of hope.
It's also part of why we've been in this revisioning time as a church for about the past year and why we're stepping into it now is because we believe this, that a world that has ugly conflict needs a beautiful savior.
That actually needs hope.
That the average Calgarian is desperate for hope.
And so that's why we're doing this series, why we've had focus groups in prayer and why we're talking and asking and calling us a church to change.
because we can't live in autopilot and change a world that's getting uglier.
So today we're gonna talk about the beauty of hope.
So we're gonna have a number of prayers.
Some of you, we're gonna invite you to pray.
Prayer is this, it's speaking to God and listening for His voice.
Some of you here, you're exploring.
Some of you are here and you've just forgotten the great hope we have in Jesus.
And so today is an amazing day to ask Him to restore that.
And then some of us, we're walking in the hope of Christ
Look at this beautiful hope, and yet it's not meant to be contained just for you, that if you're blessed, you're blessed to be a blessing.
So we're gonna talk about how we're gonna pray about becoming that to the rest of our city and beyond.
So that being said, I invite us to pray, let's pray together.
Father, you sent your son Jesus into the world to bring good news and to bring hope.
You didn't send your son into the world to condemn it, but to save it.
So Jesus, there are people in this room and watching online who've never experienced your new life and the hope that it brings.
Today, would you reveal it to them and give them the gift of faith?
God, some of us are in the room.
We've maybe been around church or been in church for a long time.
And we had hope and yet it slipped away.
It's grown dull.
Maybe through pain or trial.
Everything's kind of just gone great.
Would you restore hope today in Jesus' name?
And finally, some of us, Lord, are walking with lots of hope.
Pray that we wouldn't just hold that in for ourselves.
Would you teach us how to hold it out to others so they might experience your great love, your great forgiveness, your great strength, and your great beauty in Jesus' name?
Amen.
So if you've got a Bible, you can flip to first Peter chapter three, that's where we're gonna be.
We've been in the book of first Peter.
As we've been working through this vision series, we will be next week.
As we talk about a beautiful hope, we have three major ideas about how to live a life of beautiful hope.
The first is this, to live a life of beautiful goodness.
Beautiful goodness.
And then we'll explore the second idea, a kind of an oxymoron, beautiful suffering.
What none of us wish for and all of us will get.
and then we'll end off with this idea of a beautiful hope.
So here's where we pick up as we talk about beautiful goodness.
A little bit of background, Peter, he is now the lead leader in the church.
He leads amongst a multitude of leaders, but he is the lead leader.
And he writes this letter to a group of churches that are scattered around the province of what was called Asia Minor.
What we now know is the country of Turkey.
And so he's writing to people, and these are people who've experienced this hope of Jesus, and yet, they're beginning to feel some pushback from the culture.
So in the history of the church, there are times where you would die for being a Christian.
There are many places around the world where that's the case.
And we should pray for those people, and we often do.
At this time, however, that Peter's writing, you wouldn't get thrown to the lions, you'd just get laughed at if you were a Christian.
it wouldn't mean death, it would mean dishonor.
However, in an honor society culture, or honor shame society rather, if you were dishonorable, it had big ramifications for your economic life.
So at this time, in this region of the world, if you wouldn't worship the empire by worshiping the emperor, here's what would happen.
If you were a tradesperson, say you were a seamstress,
or you were a craftsman or a bricklayer, you were a part of what was called a guild.
And in order to work, you had to be a part of the guild.
In some ways, it was kind of like a modern day union, except it was government instituted.
If you would not worship the emperor, you could not be a part of a guild.
Here's what that meant.
If you were a Christian, you couldn't have a regular job.
So you'd pick up the worst kind of jobs.
That's the kind of difficulty these people were enduring.
And so that's where Peter picks up and where we pick up our time.
And Peter gives us, what do you do when you're feeling the social pressure?
So here's the big deal.
If you're here exploring faith, if you actually become a Christian and you follow Jesus, there will be pushback.
We're experiencing it more and more in Canada than ever before.
And Peter goes, here's how you live in light of it.
So, he begins with this.
Who is going to harm you if you are eager to do good?
So here Peter's gonna get immensely practical.
He's gonna say, you know what?
You might face social difficulty back then, and especially now, if you go, I believe this whole book.
See, if you wanna live a Christian life with integrity, you have to go, I believe the whole thing, not just the parts I like.
Not just the parts I like.
This is so essential to living a life of faith.
Here's why.
Many of us, we struggle with this idea
that the past is broken, and the church in the past, it did horrible things, right?
So you can wind back about 80 years ago, and you can look at much of the racism that took place on this continent where we degraded black people.
And a lot of church people did that.
And people go, how could they do that?
Here's how they could do it.
They ignored Genesis one, two, and three, where it said, God made all people in His image.
They just ignored that part.
So we look back now and go, oh, I can't believe they did that.
We look back even further to slavery and you go, how could they do that?
You go, they ignored Genesis one, two, and three.
And yet, what can often happen is we can live in what C.S.
Lewis, a great author, called chronological snobbery.
And so we would go, we would never make the mistakes that the people before us did.
But,
If you read this book and believe it, there are parts of it that are hard to live or believe or accept in Canadian society in 2026.
It'll just cost you.
But here's what we do when we trust that God can actually guide us is that when people look back 100 years from now at us, they're going to look at something and go, I can't believe they did that.
That was crazy.
And so,
Peter gives us advice.
How do you read and trust the whole book and have people laugh at you and yet get through?
He says this, be eager to do good.
Okay?
Be eager to do good.
So let me just use an example.
Some of you are students, you're like teenagers or almost teenagers.
And here's the big idea, at school you're gonna feel pressure.
You'll feel pressure not to live a life in alignment with Jesus and with Scripture.
But what happens if you're the number one student, the best student you can be, or you're the absolute best friend, or you're the person that everyone can trust, or if you're on a sports team, you're a great athlete and a great teammate.
Guess what happens?
It becomes very hard for people to mock you and to ride you and treat you like dirt.
Conversely, if you work at CNRL, and you live a life of public faith, you're not annoying, you just go to work and you show up and you show up early, not too early.
Okay, Christians, we also got to resist the urge to be engulfed by workaholism.
But you show up early, you do a great job.
You don't complain, you don't gossip, you support your boss, you support those underneath you.
And then you leave late, not too late.
And yet at times, you're vocal about your Christian faith.
Guess what?
It's very hard to fire the all-star on the team just because they're a Christian.
You can apply this to any area of your life.
Here's what Peter says.
If you are gonna live for Jesus in a world with pressure, you have to be eager or zealous for good works.
A lot of translations actually,
That who is going to harm you if you're eager, that word eager there can also be translated zealous.
And in the original language, that word there for zealous, actually just says if you are a zealot for good works.
Now some of you might be going, I don't know what that means.
What does that mean?
Great question.
At this time in Israel, there was political movements.
There were sort of four of them.
There was the Pharisees who were like the religious conservatives who hated Jesus.
Because Jesus showed up in a way they were not expecting.
He didn't fit their box.
The Sadducees were sort of the religious progressives of the day.
Everyone was religious in Jewish culture, by the way.
And they didn't like Jesus because he took the whole book seriously.
They thought he was backwards and an embecile and a backwater hick.
Then there was the Herodians.
These are people who, Jewish people who said, we're just gonna do whatever the government says.
We're just gonna partner up with them, buddy up with them and just get through.
And then the last group, the zealots.
The zealots were secretly scheming.
They were the militia of the day.
They're like, let's get our swords and let's overthrow Rome.
Eventually they will try to overthrow Rome and it leads to Jerusalem being torn apart and the temple being torn down.
These were serious people.
They were revolutionaries.
And what Peter is saying is this, if you're gonna follow Jesus, you have to become a revolutionary for goodness.
What does that mean?
It means this, that if you wanna follow Jesus, the way Jesus would have you follow him is that you and I, we must become people of great virtue, like remarkable virtue.
In fact, what the world needs, what Calgary needs is this, people who will follow Jesus and look just like their neighbors.
And it will be the best neighbors, the best employees, the best students, the best spouses, the best friends.
Because we have a hope.
We've got a great hope that God sees, he knows, he cares and forgives our shortcomings.
There's an old quote.
Actually, one other quick aside.
So, some of what can happen is this, Peter's saying this, if you're gonna follow Jesus and you're gonna take heat, because we will get to it, that there's a but here coming, it should be because we're living really moral, upstanding lives.
There's a letter to a guy named Diagnetus.
It's found, we found this letter, it's crazy, it's old letter.
Diagnitus, who the heck is Diagnitus?
A guy with a hard name to say.
But he was also the tutor and mentor of Marcus Aurelius, one of the great Roman leaders.
And he was writing to Marcus, there was a letter written to him, giving a report for him to give to Marcus Aurelius about Christians.
Because Christians conquered the Roman Empire.
We did.
Here's how, in this letter it says this, Christians,
are indistinguishable from other people, whether by nationality, language, or customs.
They don't inhabit separate cities of their own.
They don't speak a strange language.
They don't live some outlandish way of life.
They live in the flesh, but they are not governed by the desires of the flesh.
They pass their days on earth, but they are citizens of heaven.
Obedient to the laws, yet they live on a level that transcends the law.
Christians love all people.
but all people persecute them, condemned because they are not understood, they are put to death, but raised to life again.
They live in poverty, but they enrich many.
They are totally destitute, but possess an abundance of everything.
They suffer dishonor, but that is their glory.
Friends, it's incredibly hard to punish people who are relentlessly adding value.
So,
If you're here and you're a Christian, beautiful goodness is a billboard for Christian faith.
People don't need them yelling at them about how Jesus is so good.
What they need to see is people who talk about how good Jesus is and then live it out in every area of life.
That's great advertising.
And also, it's great protection.
But let's talk now about beautiful suffering.
Verse 14.
So who's gonna harm you?
And then we hit the reel.
But even if you should suffer for what is right, you are blessed.
You are blessed.
Here Peter picks up on the language of Jesus.
Jesus actually said, if people laugh at you and mock you for serving the kingdom of God, you're blessed.
That's what happens.
That people who really live in line with God, people start to push back on them.
They don't like them.
Why on earth would that be the case?
Like if you love God, why would anybody push back on you, not like you, hate you, despise you?
Here's why.
Light always reveals darkness.
What do I mean?
I'm gonna use a couple analogies.
You ever been around somebody really outrageously fit?
Just that kid has.
And you just around them and you're like, I just feel so out of shape.
You kind of feel the ugliness.
Heaven forbid you go out for lunch with them and order first.
You go out for lunch with somebody really fit.
You order, you're like, I'll get a hamburger.
No, a cheeseburger.
No, a bacon cheeseburger.
Do you want salad?
No, I want french fries.
With mayo dip, yeah, with mayo dip.
And then they ordered their like, I'll get a boiled chicken.
With kale, exactly.
And you know how you feel.
No.
We've also had it though.
We've also had it.
Where you go to a job and there's somebody who's just outshining you, or maybe you're a student, they're just outshining you.
They're showing up early.
They're working better.
They're nice to the boss in your heart.
You know, you've done it.
I've done it.
You're like, suck up.
You can now align yourself with the highest moral good in the world and live it.
It will create conflict.
It will.
When it creates conflict and you hear threats and it's hard, what do you do?
Verse 15, in your hearts, revere Christ as Lord.
This idea of
Jesus being Lord is really important.
Here's what it means.
If someone was Lord in the ancient world, what that meant is they got to tell you what to do.
And you did it.
And you didn't complain, you didn't argue, and you didn't get a vote.
They were in charge.
So here's what happens.
If you follow Jesus and you're living a virtuous life and there's pushback, there is now a battle for who gets to be in charge.
Who gets to be in charge?
And Peter says, you have to make up your mind in that moment that it's gonna be Jesus.
It's gonna be.
And then he says this, always be prepared to give an answer to everyone who asks you to give the reason for the hope that you have, but do this with gentleness and respect.
Okay, so here's what Peter says.
You're gonna have pushback, you gotta follow Jesus, and that's gonna, what that's going to do is it's going to lead to people asking questions about your life.
It's just going to.
I'll tell you a story.
I didn't tell this one to the 9 a.m. crowd, because I like you all better.
I love you, I do love this, I love the night.
When I was a high school student,
I did make a commitment to actually being, practicing abstinence until I was married.
And by God's grace, shockingly, shockingly, because I ran away from him for a while, that happened.
So it was interesting, in high school, as a high school student, and then as a university student, people would ask you the question, why haven't you had intercourse?
They're lilliers in the room.
And in that moment, I had an opportunity to say why, and sometimes I'd feel embarrassed.
But what was interesting was this, in living a different life, there was questions that came.
And in that, I got to answer with gentleness and respect.
See, if you're here and you're, if you're a young person, I talked to some of the young people in the room, if you're here and you have had sex outside of marriage, I'm just gonna use the word to, well, to say it otherwise,
God can forgive you and he loves you and you're not dirty and you can come to him for cleaning, he loves you, he cares about you.
But if you do choose to wait until you're married, please do, please do.
But if you do, there will come questions and there's an opportunity for you not to throw shame on other people, but to be gentle and respectful and also to go
I believe God loves his people with a pure love that is for the rest of my life.
He doesn't leave us or forsake us.
So I want to practice that in my marriage with whomever it may be.
I will become one with only one person.
That's an opportunity.
So on my wedding night, I had all these wild friends for my partying days and they knew, they knew.
So my wife and I, when we went to leave, they did this very uncomfortable, but then amazing moment.
I went to my friends and said, hey, we're leaving.
And here's what they did.
They went, ka-yo, ka-yo.
And there was like 40 of them.
40 young men shouting your name.
And then my wife in her white dress comes around the corner and Lauren's a little more bashful than I am.
And then my one friend, he's six, five, 300 pounds.
He goes, Lauren, Lauren.
And they all started doing it and they jumped around us and celebrated.
Oh, what a great, I've been a bad witness in so many ways.
That was a cool day.
And we get to be gentle and respectful.
So Peter says, you should be ready.
Here's the question of somebody said, hey, I want in on Jesus.
What do I do?
Could you lead me to?
Could you do it?
Quick little reality check, most of us can't.
Most of us can't.
Some of you know I got the privilege of starting a church, and in order to do that, you had to go to, at the time they called it boot camp.
It wasn't a very encouraging place.
And at boot camp, they would test you to see if you could talk about Jesus to somebody who doesn't go to church in a way that's helpful and lead them to Jesus.
And here's the reality, most of us failed, I failed.
That's why we're running this everyone everywhere course.
That's why Brent is running and everyone everywhere course.
I'll be in attendance as well, Jason.
Because we actually, part of our vision here at Foothills is that every one of us who knows Jesus gets to help somebody else know Jesus.
I can actually hope that for all of you.
It's part of the reason the people who started Foothills Alliance, this church is 60 years old.
It got started 60 years ago because people said people need the hope of Jesus.
And guess what?
Our vision is not that there'd be a superstar leader or leaders.
There wouldn't be an amazing spiritual celebrity.
It'd be a bunch of us living everyday lives, holding out the hope of Jesus.
We need it.
So I'd encourage you to come.
If you can't, if you can't, a quick little tool.
Make a three-minute testimony.
Three-minute testimony.
What does that look like before you met Jesus?
How you met him?
and what happened after.
And you take it and you write it, and then you practice it.
It takes three minutes.
So if somebody ever asks, and people will ask, I promise you, you can share Christ.
Now some of you go, I grew up in church at a very young age.
I don't even remember.
I invited Jesus into my heart.
What do I do then?
Here's what I would say to you.
There are moments and areas of your life where you go, at one point you were living as if God wasn't real, right?
Some of us, we've hit a troubled time and you go,
I was terrified and petrified.
I didn't know what to do, so I turned to Jesus.
So you talk about what happened in that section of your life, not your whole life, and then coming to Jesus and how he came through.
It's good news for people.
So when we suffer, we love.
As some people say, trials can make you bitter or better, and we want to use them to become better.
And here's the great news.
God can use your suffering.
It's actually the one thing God does that makes suffering makes sense.
God is not the author of suffering, but he is the redeemer of it.
On the cross, Jesus Christ suffered the worst fate.
Not only did he die, not only was he stripped naked, not only was he ashamed and embarrassed and died of torturous death, he also endured God's anger against all evil and injustice and suffering in the world.
He put all of that on Christ.
And he suffered like no one will ever suffer again.
Why?
So that you and I don't have to.
To redeem the whole world.
God can redeem your pain.
One other quick note on this gentleness and respect.
The gentleness and respect is really about kindness.
And when we do this poorly, it's outrageous.
It's not helpful.
There's a comedian named Pete Holmes who's
His faith journey is complicated.
I don't endorse everything he says nor does, okay?
That's the disclaimer.
But he gave this funny bit about the culture war in Christmas.
Some of you have seen it.
And he said, you know what?
I'm not saying Merry Christmas.
He's like, I didn't say Merry Christmas once this year.
Didn't say it, didn't want to offend anybody.
Instead, I said, may the blessing of the one true God, born of a virgin in Bethlehem,
whose name is Jesus be upon you and your household forever in this winter season.
He said, I think that's less offensive.
Here was the point of the little skip.
People laughed like that.
That actually friends, if we're gonna hold up great hope, if you're here and you're not a Christian, you're not sure what you are, we just want you to meet Jesus so much.
He's so good.
Foothills the rest of us.
We have a job and a duty, not just to receive hope, but to the agents of hope in a dark world.
See, the message of the gospel is offensive, actually, but its messengers are supposed to be winsome, an old fun word that actually we don't have to fight.
We don't have to argue.
We don't have to beat people up.
Sometimes there's a place for debate.
I like debate.
I love debate.
But there's a place for tenderness and gentleness.
And it comes when we talk to people about the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords and the Prince of Peace.
Proverbs tells us, wisdom literature says, a gentle answer turns away wrath, but a harsh word stirs up anger.
See, when we feel pushback, when we feel mocked, we just need to remember that beautiful suffering points to a beautiful savior.
Final thought, beautiful hope.
Verse 17, it is better if it is God's will to suffer for doing good than for doing evil.
For Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteous for the unrighteous, to bring you to God.
He was put to death in the body but made alive in the spirit.
A couple of things.
Sometimes we suffer because we, we've actually, it's self-inflicted.
We brought it on ourselves.
Sometimes we suffer because others hurt us.
Sometimes we suffer because life is just chaotic and sad and hard.
And some of us, we go, God, why don't you fix my suffering?
Why don't you?
Two thoughts.
One, that's a great prayer.
If life is really hard, I would implore you to go, God, would you heal me?
Would you give me wisdom to fix this relational strain?
Would you give me wisdom to know how to walk through my financial difficulties?
Pray.
Ask him to intervene.
And sometimes he does.
But also, number two, sometimes he says, it's my will for you.
What does that mean?
God is not the author of suffering.
God didn't make your life terrible.
What he says is this, I can take what's terrible in your life and make it beautiful.
What sets Christianity apart is this.
This is what offends Muslims so much.
As we say this, God suffers.
God is a God who suffers, and he suffers to redeem, and that means he can take the suffering in your life and redeem it too.
It is better to do good, better if it is God's will, to suffer for doing good than for doing evil.
Foothills, we have this deep desire to train up the whole church,
Everybody who knows Jesus to talk about Jesus, he's the hope of the world.
He's so great.
And so we're gonna head to prayer now.
We're gonna pray.
We're gonna talk to Jesus.
See, it's interesting.
We talk about how beautiful Jesus is, how much hope he is.
But in the book of Isaiah, it talks about that actually when he lived among us, God's one and only son, on the day of his execution,
He was beaten beyond human likeness.
It says that he was marred and disfigured beyond the form of any human being.
And on the cross, Jesus, the beautiful one, was made broken and marred and ugly to restore our beauty.
The beauty of humanity, the beauty of being made in God's image.
Have you received his hope?
If you haven't, we're gonna pray and you can receive it today.
If you have, you get to share it and there'll be a prayer for you on who you could share it with and how God would have you do it.
So let's pray.
If you're here and you've not experienced the hope and beauty of Jesus Christ, today is a great day to do that.
You can pray this prayer alongside of me and your head and your heart
Jesus, I receive your hope.
Take my fear and my failure, reunite me with God, and redeem the broken areas of my life, including my suffering.
Thank you that you suffered to save me.
Please put your spirit within me.
The second prayer is for those of us who have received Jesus.
We're just gonna pause, we're gonna listen.
Sometimes the Spirit of God speaks to us in our thoughts, sometimes he whispers stuff to us, sometimes he reminds us of scripture, because he wants to lead and guide us.
So we're gonna invite the Lord Jesus to show us who we might nudge towards this kingdom and how we should do that.
So here's the simple prayer, come Spirit of God, we know you're here.
Would you show us who you would have us nudge towards your kingdom?
And then Lord, how would you have us do it?
And so Jesus, we turn our eyes to you.
You are the author.
and the perfecter of our faith.
We pray today that you would give the gift of faith to many in this room and online.
And then, Lord, we pray that you would strengthen those of us who feel weak.
You would give us great strength by your Holy Spirit to hold out the reason for the hope we have.
And Jesus, we ask in your name that you would continue to make Foothills Alliance Church
a church where the hope of Jesus is found and where his people go out to spread the good news of your kingdom, your love, your forgiveness, and your return.
And we pray all this in Jesus' beautiful name.
Amen.